# milestone-II-stock-predictions
This code is being produced to fulfil the requirements of the Milestone 2 project in the University of Michigan Masters in Applied Data Science degree.

This Milestone project will build on the Milestone 1 Project. The goal of this project will be to study stock market data and predict future returns. We will extend the data, data manipulation processes and feature generation approach from that project to create the dataset for this project. We will also explore unsupervised learning to attempt to get a better understanding of the categories of stocks included in this project, and their changes over time. One output of the unsupervised learning we conduct will be to contribute additional features to the supervised learning approach. Our dataset will include approximately 250-300 UK stocks over approximately five years from 2016 to 2021.

## supervised learning
The input data consists of 3 types of features. They are 1) stock price histories including amount traded per day (volume), 2) fundamental data about the company such as revenue, earnings per share, and 3) technical features derived from price histories and volume. Many of these are Finance-domain specific but others are more widely applicable across domains. We will experiment with modelling approaches that combine all these feature types and we may also explore modelling each of these areas separately potentially ensembling results later. In terms of model types, at a minimum, we intend to use linear models and tree-based approaches. In addition we may explore other models including; Naive Bayes, k-Nearest Neighbors, Neural Networks, and Auto-regressive modelling approaches. We intend to treat this as a regression problem attempting to predict the percentage price change from the date of the featureset to the date of the future price.

## unsupervised learning
The ultimate question we seek to answer with our unsupervised learning is whether we can cluster stocks better than traditional sector and industry groupings, based on their features and attributes, so that we can ultimately better understand and target trading strategies unique to their clusters. We will also likely separate out our data, using filtering and possible aggregations, to be snapshots at certain time intervals for later visuals showing how clusters and optimal trading may shift over time. We will leverage multiple clustering algorithms, prioritizing k-means for centroid clustering, and hierarchical clustering to possibly take advantage of possible “levels” that eventual strategies could operate at. The k-means will be evaluated by testing for an “elbow” with the sum of squared distance and focus on numerical data, and the hierarchical clustering will be evaluated based on its ability to cluster on categorical data, which admittedly will be more arbitrary and subjective. Visualizations will include “elbow” graphs for k-means, hierarchical clustering output graphs, and we intend, time permitting, to leverage interactive graphs to show the movement of these clusters over time.
